Now that you have your approved budget
and are beginning to deliver on your work plan,
let’s start spending money!
But before initiating and committing any expenditures,
you must verify that there are sufficient funds in your budget.
This means you need to review what has been spent or committed to date,
along with any other planned expenditures.
As the year progresses, you will most likely
shuffle unused amounts within your budgeted items
to find the funds you need for expenditures.
Don’t forget! The format of your budget may differ from the one used here,
depending on where you work.
Did you know that financial authorities are
granted to ministers and deputy heads
through the Financial Administration Act, the FAA?
These individuals then delegate authority to positions
identified by title
through their organization’s delegation of financial signing authorities chart.
To exercise your financial authority, you need to do the following three things:
One, successfully complete this course.
Two, submit your signed delegation card to your Finance unit.
And three, receive your formal delegation of authority
in writing from your Finance unit.
There are several delegated authorities, and managers typically have two.
Section 32 is expenditure initiation
and commitment authority,
and section 34 is certification authority.
Section 32 would allow you to order
office supplies, while section 34
would allow you to sign off on having received the supplies.
Then there’s section 33, which allows the Finance unit to pay for the supplies.
In certain situations, for example, temporary help services,
you will need to go through a procurement process
because it involves a contract.
These situations are governed by section 41 of the FAA,
and would typically be managed by
the Procurement section in your organization.
To know what and how much you can authorize,
consult your own signed delegation card
and your organization’s delegation chart.
Again, the format of these documents will differ,
depending on where you work.
You have the money and you have the delegation. Great!
Now you need to determine the best way to
get the goods and services in question.
The next activity will give you a chance
to learn about spending mechanisms!
Once you’ve checked that you have enough money to cover a purchase,
you then create either a soft commitment or a hard commitment.
A soft commitment is when you reserve funds
before the supplier is identified.
A hard commitment is when you make an arrangement
with a known supplier.
Either way, you will need to enter these commitments in the
financial system using the department’s unique financial coding.
This financial coding is a system
that allows us to keep track of the different kinds of transactions
throughout the year.
It allows us to identify, among other things:
which manager is responsible for the financial transaction,
which component of your budget is being used,
operating and maintenance, salary, etc.
The nature of the financial transaction, like if its revenue,
an expenditure, an asset, or a liability.
Details of the transaction,
and the activity to which the financial transaction is linked.
The financial coding system allows you to better manage
your financial transactions
and speak to your budget at any moment throughout the year.
Managers often work with administrative professionals
or financial officers for this task.
To wrap up this section,
let’s take a look at a practice scenario.